So that I've talked about
the concept of spliterators,
and we've talked about basically
the overall concept of how
things get split up, and
we talked about splitting,
and we talked about
iterating, and so on,
we're now going
to talk about how
to apply a subset of the
spliterator capability.
And in this case,
we're going to define
a spliterator for the
SimpleSearchStream program.
So the SimpleSearchStream
program
uses a sequential
spliterator, which
only has one thread involved.
And basically, what
we're going to do
is use this spliterator
in our implementation
of the searchForWord method.
We talked about
searchForWord before.
I showed you how
searchForWord is
going to be used to take
a word, and then it's
going to go ahead
and look up and find
all the places where that word
occurs and an input stream.
So that's what
searchForWord does.
And the way it works is it uses
a spliterator, which we define
and will show, to
find all the instances
of a word in the input string,
and it returns a SearchResults
object.
So it'll be a list
of all the results.
So here's the way this works.
If you take a
close look at this,
the search for word method
creates a new SearchResults
object.
And one of the parameters
that's passed to this
is going to be a list
of search results.
And we get this list
of search results
by first calling
StreamSupport.stream, which
we just looked at,
and we're going
to pass in our own spliterator.
And our own spliterator
is going to be
this WordMatchSpliterator.
And this
WordMatchSpliterator is going
to be given the input
string we're searching,
which is the lyrics for the
"Do Re Mi" song, and a given
word, like "mi" or "fa"
or "ti" or whatnot.
And we also are going to
pass in the value false.
And by passing in the
value false, that means,
just make me a sequential
stream, please.
So we now take that
sequential stream,
and this is one of those
examples where we don't have
any intermediate operations.
We immediately call a
collect terminal operation
to collect the stream
of matching results
into a list of
SearchResults.result objects.
So this list of
SearchResults.result
will then be passed
as the final parameter
to the SearchResults
constructor,
and then that will
have kept track
of where all the
indices matched when
we did our search to look for
the word in the input string.
So that is the
context of everything
let's now turn our attention
to the WordMatchSpliterator
implementation.
So the WordMatchSpliterator
is a class
that uses Java
regular expressions
to create a stream of
SearchResults.result objects
that match the number of times
a word appears in an input
string.
So you can see, here's
WordMatchSpliterator.
You can go look at its
implementation in my Github
repository.
This WordMatchSpliterator
extends
the
Spliterators.AbstractSpliterator
helper class, which in turn
implements Spliterator,
the spliterator interface.
And the nice thing about using
the AbstractSpliterator class
is, You?
Only have to implement
the tryAdvance method.
You'll notice that the
AbstractSpliterator is
a generic class that's
parameterized with result.
And result, in this
case, is basically
an object that keeps
track of the indices where
a search was located,
where a word was located.
We then go ahead and define a
field here called mWordMatcher.
And mWordMatcher is part of
the Java regular expression
package, and it defines a
regular-expression-matching
engine that will be
used to match words,
or regular expressions, in this
case, that appear in the input.
The constructor will be passed--
the constructor for
WordMatchSpliterator
is passed the input
string we're searching
and a word that we want to
search for in that string.
We take that word,
and we convert it
into a regular expression.
And the regular expression
we're going to do
is, first we're
going to strip off
any trailing spaces
for the word.
That's probably overkill,
but we strip it down
so it's just the word.
And then we go ahead
and we can concatenate,
we append and prepend the
regular expressions syntax
to indicate we only want to
match words, not substrings.
So we only want
to match something
if it's, in fact, a word,
not something that's
a substring of a larger word.
And that ends up with a new
string we call regexWord.
And then we take that
regexWord string,
and we pass it to the
compile method of the pattern
class, which is something
that's defined in Java's
regular expression package.
And this goes ahead and
compiles the regular expression
and creates a matcher
for the input string.
And so what we do
is, we first compile
the regular expression
saying, hey, here's
the regular expression.
We want this thing to
be case insensitive.
So uppercase, lowercase
doesn't matter.
And then we take back
the compiled pattern,
and then we create a matcher
by associating that pattern
with the input string.
So at this point, we can
show the implementation
of the tryAdvance method.
And this is called by the
Java Streams framework, which
is going to try to advance the
spliterator by one word match,
if there is a match.
If there's no match, we'll
see what happens in a second.
Note that this method is
passed a Consumer action.
And this is used to pass
back any results by reference
to the Streams framework if
we find a regular expression
match.
So let's see what happens.
The first thing we're
going to try to do
is, we're going to try to
find that regular expression
in the string.
We're going to try to
find the next occurrence
of the regular
expression in the string.
And the find method is
the method that's defined
on the regular expression.
And what it does
is, it goes ahead
and ks to see if
there's a match.
And it finds the first match,
looking from left to right,
if you will.
If there is no match,
or no more matches
in that string, if
we found them all,
or if there never were
any in the first place,
then tryAdvance
will return false.
And that's an indication
to the Streams framework
to stop calling tryAdvance.
So it says, we're done.
We didn't find any match.
There's nothing more to find.
Now, as we'll see,
this might not
have been the first time
that tryAdvance was called,
so we may have found
matches earlier.
But if this call doesn't
find a match, we're done.
If we do find a match,
then what we're going to do
is, we're going to go
ahead and figure out
where that match occurred.
And we do that by saying,
mWordMatcher.start.
And that returns the
index into the string
where the match occurred.
And we're going to map--
we're going to wrap that index
into a new result object.
And then we're going to
take that result object,
and we're going to accept
it into the Consumer action.
And that consumer action
is then going to basically
pass that result back
by value, If you will,
because obviously it's
passed by reference--
sorry, it's going to pass
it back by reference.
The action state internal
details will have been updated.
And we go ahead and return true.
So this informs the stream
framework, hey, we got a match.
Here it is.
And there might be
more things, so please
continue to call tryAdvance.
So of course, the next
time tryAdvance is called,
it'll start by going back to the
mWordMatcher.find expression.
And if that succeeds,
it'll keep going.
If it fails, we'll return false.
And so this will keep going
as long as we find matches.
And when we finally don't find
a match, false is returned,
and the Streams framework
says, OK, we're done.
And then it will go ahead and
finish creating the stream
from all the pieces that we've
passed back in our consumer
action parameter.
So as you can see, this
just puts it all in context.
We make ourselves a new
WordMatchSpliterator,
connecting the string
input and the word.
And we pass that to
StreamSupport.stream,
passing in the false
value to say this is going
to be a sequential stream.
So this is a nice
example, hopefully
a pretty comprehensive example,
of applying a Java spliterator
for our SimpleSearchStream
program.
We will talk in
more detail later
about how to do this for
more powerful examples.
This, again, just shows
you the big-picture view.
We use this in order to
transform the stream of strings
into a stream of
search result objects.